'\" t
.\" @(#)kinit.1 1.10 02/06/18 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits réservés.
.\" 
.TH kinit 1 "18 June 2002"
.SH NAME
kinit \- kinit is used to obtain and cache Kerberos 
ticket-granting tickets. This tool is
similar in functionality to the kinit tool that 
are commonly found in other
Kerberos implementations, such as SEAM and MIT Reference implementations.
.LP
The use must be registered as a principal with the Key Distribution Center
(KDC) prior to running kinit.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kinit
[
.IR commands " ]" 
<principal name>
.SH DESCRIPTION
By default, for all Unix platforms a cache file 
named /tmp/krb5cc_<uid> 
will  be
generated. 
<uid> is the user identification number 
of the user logged into the
system. For all other platforms, a cache file named
<USER_HOME>/krb5cc_<USER_NAME> 
would be generated.
.LP
<USER_HOME> is obtained from the 
.BR java.lang.System 
property 
.BR user.home .
<USER_NAME> is obtained from 
.BR java.lang.System 
property 
.BR user.name . 
If <USER_HOME> 
is null, the cache file would be stored in 
the current directory that
the program is running from. 
<USER_NAME> is the operating system's login
username. This username could be different than 
the user's principal name. For
example on Solaris, it could be 
/home/duke/krb5cc_duke, 
in which duke is the <USER_NAME> 
and  /home/duke is the 
<USER_HOME>.
.LP
By default, the keytab name is retrieved from 
the Kerberos configuration file. If
the keytab name is not specifed in the Kerberos 
configuration file, the name is
assumed to be <USER_HOME>/krb5.keytab
.LP
If you do not specify the password using 
the password option on the command
line, kinit will prompt you for the password.
.LP
.B Note:
password is provided only for testing purposes. Do not place
your password in a script or provide your password on the command
line. Doing so will compromise your password.
.LP
For more information see the man pages for kinit.
.SH COMMANDS
.B kinit \-fp
[
\-c <cache_name> ]
[
\-k ]
[
\-t <keytab_filename> ]
[
<principal> ]
[
<password> ]
[
\-help ]
.TP
.BI \-f
Issue a forwardable ticket.
.TP
.BI \-p
Issue a proxiable ticket.
.TP
.BI \-c 
<cache_name>
The cache name (i.e., FILE:/temp/mykrb5cc).
.TP
.BI \-k
Use keytab
.TP
.BI \-t 
<keytab_filename>
The keytab name (i.e., /home/duke/krb5.keytab).
.TP
.BI <principal>
The principal name (i.e., duke@java.sun.com).
.TP
.BI <password>
The principal's Kerberos password.
(DO NOT SPECIFY ON COMMAND LINE OR IN A SCRIPT.)
.TP
.BI \-help
Display instructions.
.SH EXAMPLES
Requesting credentials valid for authentication 
from the current client host, for
the default services, storing the credentials 
cache in the default location
(/home/duke/krb5cc_duke):
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
kinit duke@JAVA.SUN.COM
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
Requesting proxiable credentials for a different
principal and storing these credentials in a
specified file cache:
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
kinit -p -c FILE:/home/duke/credentials/krb5cc_cafebeef 
cafebeef@JAVA.SUN.COM
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
Requesting proxiable and forwardable credentials 
for a different principal and
storing these credentials in a specified file cache:
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
kinit -f -p -c
FILE:/home/duke/credentials/krb5cc_cafebeef
cafebeef@JAVA.SUN.COM
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
Displaying the help menu for kinit:
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
kinit -help
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
.SH SECURITY ALERT
The 
.BR password
flag is for testing purposes only. Do not
specify your password on the command line.
Doing so is a security hole since an attacker
could discover your password while running the Unix
.BR ps
command, for example.

