'\" t
.\" @(#)klist.1 1.10 02/06/18 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits réservés.
.\" 
.TH klist 1 "18 June 2002"
.SH NAME
klist \- Kerberos display entries in credentials cache and keytab 
.LP
.BR klist
allows the user to view entries in the local credentials cache and
key table.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B klist
[
.IR commands " ]" 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR klist
displays the entries in the local credentials cache
and key table. After the user has modified the 
credentials cache with 
.BR kinit 
or modified the keytab with
.BR ktab , 
the only way to verify the changes is to 
view the contents of the credentials
cache and/or keytab using 
.BR klist . 
.BR klist 
does not change the Kerberos database.
.SH COMMANDS
.B klist 
[
\-c [-fe]]
[
\-k [-tK]]
[
<name>]
[
\-help ]
.TP
.BI \-c
Specifies that the credential cache entries
are to be listed.
.TP
.BI \-k
Specifies that the key tab entries are to be listed.
.TP
.BI <cache_name>
Specifies the credential cache name or the keytab
name. If the name is not specified default values
for cache name and the keytab are used. The
default values for the cache and the keytab are
specified in the man page for 
.BR kinit .
.LP
If the -c option is specified (options for
credential cache):
.TP
.BI \-f
Shows credentials flags.
.TP
.BI \-e
Shows the encryption type.
.LP
If the -k option is specified (options
available for keytabs):
.TP
.BI \-t
Shows keytab entry timestamps.
.TP
.BI \-K
Shows keytab entry DES keys.
.LP
.TP
.BI \-help
Displays instructions.
.SH EXAMPLES
List entries in the keytable specified 
including keytab entry timestamps and
DES keys:
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
klist -k -t -K FILE:/temp/mykrb5cc
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
List entries in the credentials cache
specified including credentials flag
and address list:
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
klist -c -f FILE:/temp/mykrb5cc
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
