'\" t
.\" @(#)ktab.1 1.10 02/06/18 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits réservés.
.\" 
.TH ktab 1 "21 Oct 2002"
.SH NAME
ktab \- Kerberos key table manager 
.LP
.BR ktab
allows the user to manage the principal names 
and service keys stored in a
local key table. Principal and key 
pairs listed in the keytab allow services running
on a host to authenticate themselves to the 
Key Distribution Center (KDC). Before
a server can be setup to use Kerberos, the 
user must setup a keytab on the host
running the server. Note that any updates 
made to the keytab using ktab do not
affect the Kerberos database. If you change the 
keys in the keytab, you must also
make the corresponding changes to the Kerberos database.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ktab
[
.IR commands " ]" 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR ktab
manages principal name and key pairs 
in the key table. 
.BR ktab 
allows the user to list, add, update 
or delete principal names and key pairs in 
the key table. None of these operations 
affect the Kerberos database. 
.LP
.ft 3
.B Keytab
.LP
A keytab is a host's copy of its own 
keylist, which is analogous to a
user's password. An application 
server that needs to authenticate itself
to the Key Distribution Center (KDC) 
must have a keytab which
contains its own principal and key. 
Just as it is important for users to
protect their passwords, it is equally 
important for hosts to protect
their keytabs. You should always store 
keytab files on the local disk
and make them readable only by root. 
You should never send a keytab
file over a network in the clear. 
.SH COMMANDS
Usage: The command line options are not case 
sensitive.
.LP
.B ktab
-help
.LP
.B ktab
-l [-k <keytab_name>]
.LP
.B ktab
[-a <principal_name> <password>] [-k <keytab_name>]
.LP
.B ktab
[-d <principal_name>] [-k <keytab_name>]
.LP
.TP
.BI \-l
List the keytab name and entries.
.TP
.BI \-a
<principal_name> <password>
Add an entry to the keytab. No changes are made
to the Kerberos database. (DO NOT SPECIFY YOUR
PASSWORD ON COMMAND LINE OR IN A SCRIPT.)
.TP
.BI \-d 
<principal_name>
Delete an entry from the keytab. No changes are
made to the Kerberos database.
.TP
.BI \-k
<keytab_name>
Specify keytab name and path with prefix FILE:
.TP
.BI \-help
Displays intsructions.
.SH EXAMPLES
To list all the entries in the default keytable:
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
ktab -l
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
To add a new principal to the key table (note
that you will be prompted for your password):
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
ktab -a duke@java.sun.com
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
To delete a principal from the key table:
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
ktab -d duke@java.sun.com
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
.SH SECURITY ALERT
Do not specify your password on the command line. 
Doing so is a security hole. For example, an
attacker could discover your password while 
running the Unix
.BI ps
command.
